21-05-2021

Points:
Statistics is branch of mathematics which is very important ti know the patterns in data.
To predict and know data inclination we can use statistics.
In real-world it is used in all sectors from medical in genetics to weather forecasting

Core points:
Population : Population is statistics is the whole data.
Samples : From population if we take random databased on categorize size to analyze it is called samples.

Statistics is of two types :
1. Inferential Statistics
2. Descriptive Statistics

Descriptive Statistics:
Organize the data based on particular statistics.

Inferential Statistics:
Analysing large amount of data based on small datasets.


Variable :
The values which is unique and induvidual is called variable.

Quantitave
Values that holds numerical value

Qualitative
Values that holds categorical values


Data
Structured
1. Quantative data
    1. Discrete : No of pets, No of planets 
    2. Contineous : values from sensors like temperature, Speed
2. Qualitative data
    1. Ordinal : Grades of student, which has order. Rating of movie 
    2. Nominal: Identify an object uniquely and identifying an object, Gender, City , Name of CM


Sampling : 
Sampling is of two types

1. Probability sampling
Each an every object have equal rights to get selected without partiality.

 (i)   Random Sampling : Randomly selecting samples. Lottery system.
 (ii)  Systematic Sampling : Selecting based on order or alternatively but based on any pattern. Two times random sampling.
 (iii) Statified sampling : First categoring the data , then each group doing random sampling.
 (iv)  Cluster Sampling : Based on common features classify items, Do random sampling from these clustering . Then from these amller custers do lottery  syetem.
They will be high chances of selection

2. Non Probability Sampling
Sample selected based on Bais

(i) Quota Sampling : In school giving 50 percent reservation to girls and 50 percent reservation to boys
(ii) Jurdgemental Sampling : When taking some decision takes more time which makes no use to people.
(iii) Convinient Sampling : It happens based on need, if needed then and there based on opinion we just select. If I am hyderabad then I take samples from hyderabad only. Which should not be prefered.
(iv) Snowball : When there is no data then creating own data even if data is no value. When in time we will be adding the data 
slowly it becomes huge data. When we dont have any data we take first samples and we go to next sample and continue like that.

Example: People with Artiatis , rupture in bone. People are with this very rare. WHat we do is we go to clinic and then get the people list.








